styling.md, before:

_The original version `0.2` of this spec can be found at [chriskempson/base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16/blob/main/styling.md). The document is reproduced here for both convenience and archival purposes. We have made minor formatting changes to improve readability, content changes to reflect how these guidelines are applied in practice, and added an example with notes about legacy format._

---

# Base16 Styling Guidelines
**Version 0.4.2** The latest version of this spec can be obtained from [tinted-theming/styling](https://github.com/tinted-theming/home/blob/main/styling.md)

Base16 aims to group similar language constructs with a single color. For example, floats, ints, and doubles would belong to the same color group. The colors for the default scheme were chosen to be easily separable, but scheme designers should pick whichever colors they desire, e.g. `base0B` (green by default) could be replaced with red. There are, however, some general guidelines below that stipulate which `base0B` should be used to highlight each construct when designing templates for editors.

Since describing syntax highlighting can be tricky, please see [base16-vim](https://github.com/tinted-theming/base16-vim/) and [base16-emacs](https://github.com/tinted-theming/base16-emacs/) for reference. Though it should be noted that each editor will have some discrepancies due the fact that editors generally have different syntax highlighting engines.

Colors `base00` to `base07` are typically variations of a shade and run from darkest to lightest for dark themes. These colors are used for foreground and background, status bars, line highlighting and such. Colors `base08` to `base0F` are typically individual colors used for types, operators, names and variables. In order to create a dark scheme, colors `base00` to `base07` should span from dark to light. For a light scheme, these color should span from light to dark.

## Usage Guidelines

We offer guidelines for both dark and light themes:

### Dark

- Colors from `base00` to `base07` should range from dark to light.

### Light

- Colors from `base00` to `base07` should range from light to dark.

## Specific Colors and Their Usages

  Each color (base0X) serves a specific purpose or use case, such as background, foreground, variables, errors, etc. Here's a breakdown using the "One Dark" scheme colors:

| Color                                              | base0X   | ANSI     | Terminal                   | Text Editor |
| -------------------------------------------------- | -------  | -------- | -------------------------- | ----------- |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/282c34/000000?text=%2B) | base00 | 0        | Black (Background)         | Default Background |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/3f4451/000000?text=%2B) | base01 | 18       | (Darkest Gray)             | Lighter Background (Used for status bars) |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/4f5666/000000?text=%2B) | base02 | 19       | (Dark Gray)                | Selection Background |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/545862/000000?text=%2B) | base03 | 8        | Bright Black (Gray)        | Comments, Invisibles, Line Highlighting |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/9196a1/000000?text=%2B) | base04 | 20       | (Light Gray)               | Dark Foreground (Used for status bars) |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/abb2bf/000000?text=%2B) | base05 | 7        | White                      | Default Foreground, Caret, Delimiters, Operators |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/e6e6e6/000000?text=%2B) | base06 | 21       | (Lighter White)            | Light Foreground |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/ffffff/000000?text=%2B) | base07 | 15       | Bright White               | The Lightest Foreground |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/e06c75/000000?text=%2B) | base08 | 1 | Red         | Variables, XML Tags, Markup Link Text, Markup Lists, Diff Deleted |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/d19a66/000000?text=%2B) | base09 | 16       | (Orange)                   | Integers, Boolean, Constants, XML Attributes, Markup Link Url |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/e5c07b/000000?text=%2B) | base0A | 3 | Yellow   | Classes, Markup Bold, Search Text Background |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/98c379/000000?text=%2B) | base0B | 2 | Green   | Strings, Inherited Class, Markup Code, Diff Inserted |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/56b6c2/000000?text=%2B) | base0C | 6 | Cyan       | Support, Regular Expressions, Escape Characters, Markup Quotes |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/61afef/000000?text=%2B) | base0D | 4 | Blue       | Functions, Methods, Attribute IDs, Headings |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/c678dd/000000?text=%2B) | base0E | 5 | Magenta | Keywords, Storage, Selector, Markup Italic, Diff Changed |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/be5046/000000?text=%2B) | base0F | 17       | (Dark Red or Brown)        | Deprecated, Opening/Closing Embedded Language Tags, e.g. `<?php ?>` |
| | | | optional | sample from base##->opt## if not supplied by scheme
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/ff7b86/000000?text=%2B) | opt08 | 9    | Bright Red          | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/efb074/000000?text=%2B) | opt0A | 11   | Bright Yellow       | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/b1e18b/000000?text=%2B) | opt0B | 10   | Bright Green        | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/63d4e0/000000?text=%2B) | opt0C | 14   | Bright Cyan         | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/67cdff/000000?text=%2B) | opt0D | 12   | Bright Blue         | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/e48bff/000000?text=%2B) | opt0E | 13   | Bright Magenta      | NA |

**Notes**:

- These are just guidelines and will most often provide best results when the they are followed.
- Items in parenthesis in the Terminal column do not have an identified terminal use and are a more generic color description.
- Most terminals allow to set extended ANSI colors, but not all. It can't be assumed that the extended ANSI colors are set when using a tinted-theming terminal template theme.
- opt colors will typically be brighter for dark themes and darker for light themes.
- opt colors not specified will be sampled from corresponding base colors and made brighter (0.1) and less saturated (-0.2) for dark themes, the opposite for light themes (-0.1,0.2) respectively.

## YAML scheme examples

Tinted theming supports both the legacy format specified in the original spec as well as the enhanced Tinted theming spec

### Legacy ayu-dark.yaml

As described in [chriskempson/base16](https://github.com/tinted-theming/home/blob/7c5b859b5ef07d40dd95c402c634b311ef66a0b6/styling.md).

```yaml
name: "Ayu Dark"
slug: ayu-dark
author: "Khue Nguyen <Z5483Y@gmail.com>"
base00: "0f1419" # ---- dark
base01: "131721" # ---
base02: "272d38" # --
base03: "3e4b59" # -
base04: "bfbdb6" # +
base05: "e6e1cf" # ++
base06: "e6e1cf" # +++
base07: "f3f4f5" # ++++ light
base08: "f07178" # red
base09: "ff8f40" # orange
base0A: "ffb454" # yellow
base0B: "b8cc52" # green
base0C: "95e6cb" # cyan
base0D: "59c2ff" # blue
base0E: "d2a6ff" # purple
base0F: "e6b673" # brown
```


### ayu-dark.yaml

See https://github.com/tinted-theming/home/blob/main/builder.md#schemes for detailed schema information.

```yaml
system: "base16"
name: "Ayu Dark"
author: "Khue Nguyen <Z5483Y@gmail.com>"
variant: "dark"
palette:
  base00: "#0f1419" # ---- dark
  base01: "#131721" # ---
  base02: "#272d38" # --
  base03: "#3e4b59" # -
  base04: "#bfbdb6" # +
  base05: "#e6e1cf" # ++
  base06: "#e6e1cf" # +++
  base07: "#f3f4f5" # ++++ light
  base08: "#f07178" # red
  base09: "#ff8f40" # orange
  base0A: "#ffb454" # yellow
  base0B: "#b8cc52" # green
  base0C: "#95e6cb" # cyan
  base0D: "#59c2ff" # blue
  base0E: "#d2a6ff" # purple
  base0F: "#e6b673" # brown
```

_SPEC END_

---

Commit message:

move bright yaml keys
to:

bright_adj_hsl:
  hue:
  saturation:
  lightness:

styling.md, after:

_The original version `0.2` of this spec can be found at [chriskempson/base16](https://github.com/chriskempson/base16/blob/main/styling.md). The document is reproduced here for both convenience and archival purposes. We have made minor formatting changes to improve readability, content changes to reflect how these guidelines are applied in practice, and added an example with notes about legacy format._

---

# Base16 Styling Guidelines
**Version 0.4.2** The latest version of this spec can be obtained from [tinted-theming/styling](https://github.com/tinted-theming/home/blob/main/styling.md)

Base16 aims to group similar language constructs with a single color. For example, floats, ints, and doubles would belong to the same color group. The colors for the default scheme were chosen to be easily separable, but scheme designers should pick whichever colors they desire, e.g. `base0B` (green by default) could be replaced with red. There are, however, some general guidelines below that stipulate which `base0B` should be used to highlight each construct when designing templates for editors.

Since describing syntax highlighting can be tricky, please see [base16-vim](https://github.com/tinted-theming/base16-vim/) and [base16-emacs](https://github.com/tinted-theming/base16-emacs/) for reference. Though it should be noted that each editor will have some discrepancies due the fact that editors generally have different syntax highlighting engines.

Colors `base00` to `base07` are typically variations of a shade and run from darkest to lightest for dark themes. These colors are used for foreground and background, status bars, line highlighting and such. Colors `base08` to `base0F` are typically individual colors used for types, operators, names and variables. In order to create a dark scheme, colors `base00` to `base07` should span from dark to light. For a light scheme, these color should span from light to dark.

## Usage Guidelines

We offer guidelines for both dark and light themes:

### Dark

- Colors from `base00` to `base07` should range from dark to light.

### Light

- Colors from `base00` to `base07` should range from light to dark.

## Specific Colors and Their Usages

  Each color (base0X) serves a specific purpose or use case, such as background, foreground, variables, errors, etc. Here's a breakdown using the "One Dark" scheme colors:

| Color                                              | base0X   | ANSI     | Terminal                   | Text Editor |
| -------------------------------------------------- | -------  | -------- | -------------------------- | ----------- |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/282c34/000000?text=%2B) | base00 | 0        | Black (Background)         | Default Background |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/3f4451/000000?text=%2B) | base01 | 18       | (Darkest Gray)             | Lighter Background (Used for status bars) |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/4f5666/000000?text=%2B) | base02 | 19       | (Dark Gray)                | Selection Background |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/545862/000000?text=%2B) | base03 | 8        | Bright Black (Gray)        | Comments, Invisibles, Line Highlighting |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/9196a1/000000?text=%2B) | base04 | 20       | (Light Gray)               | Dark Foreground (Used for status bars) |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/abb2bf/000000?text=%2B) | base05 | 7        | White                      | Default Foreground, Caret, Delimiters, Operators |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/e6e6e6/000000?text=%2B) | base06 | 21       | (Lighter White)            | Light Foreground |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/ffffff/000000?text=%2B) | base07 | 15       | Bright White               | The Lightest Foreground |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/e06c75/000000?text=%2B) | base08 | 1 | Red         | Variables, XML Tags, Markup Link Text, Markup Lists, Diff Deleted |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/d19a66/000000?text=%2B) | base09 | 16       | (Orange)                   | Integers, Boolean, Constants, XML Attributes, Markup Link Url |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/e5c07b/000000?text=%2B) | base0A | 3 | Yellow   | Classes, Markup Bold, Search Text Background |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/98c379/000000?text=%2B) | base0B | 2 | Green   | Strings, Inherited Class, Markup Code, Diff Inserted |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/56b6c2/000000?text=%2B) | base0C | 6 | Cyan       | Support, Regular Expressions, Escape Characters, Markup Quotes |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/61afef/000000?text=%2B) | base0D | 4 | Blue       | Functions, Methods, Attribute IDs, Headings |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/c678dd/000000?text=%2B) | base0E | 5 | Magenta | Keywords, Storage, Selector, Markup Italic, Diff Changed |
| ![#](https://placehold.co/25/be5046/000000?text=%2B) | base0F | 17       | (Dark Red or Brown)        | Deprecated, Opening/Closing Embedded Language Tags, e.g. `<?php ?>` |
| | | | optional | sample from base##->opt## if not supplied by scheme
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/ff7b86/000000?text=%2B) | bright08 | 9    | Bright Red          | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/efb074/000000?text=%2B) | bright0A | 11   | Bright Yellow       | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/b1e18b/000000?text=%2B) | bright0B | 10   | Bright Green        | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/63d4e0/000000?text=%2B) | bright0C | 14   | Bright Cyan         | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/67cdff/000000?text=%2B) | bright0D | 12   | Bright Blue         | NA |
| ![Colour](https://placehold.co/25/e48bff/000000?text=%2B) | bright0E | 13   | Bright Magenta      | NA |

**Notes**:

- These are just guidelines and will most often provide best results when the they are followed.
- Items in parenthesis in the Terminal column do not have an identified terminal use and are a more generic color description.
- Most terminals allow to set extended ANSI colors, but not all. It can't be assumed that the extended ANSI colors are set when using a tinted-theming terminal template theme.
- bright colors will typically be brighter for dark themes and darker for light themes.
- bright colors not specified will be sampled from corresponding base colors and made brighter (0.15) for dark themes, for light themes they will be made darker (-0.2) and saturation increased (0.2).

## YAML scheme examples

Tinted theming supports both the legacy format specified in the original spec as well as the enhanced Tinted theming spec

### Legacy ayu-dark.yaml

As described in [chriskempson/base16](https://github.com/tinted-theming/home/blob/7c5b859b5ef07d40dd95c402c634b311ef66a0b6/styling.md).

```yaml
name: "Ayu Dark"
slug: ayu-dark
author: "Khue Nguyen <Z5483Y@gmail.com>"
base00: "0f1419" # ---- dark
base01: "131721" # ---
base02: "272d38" # --
base03: "3e4b59" # -
base04: "bfbdb6" # +
base05: "e6e1cf" # ++
base06: "e6e1cf" # +++
base07: "f3f4f5" # ++++ light
base08: "f07178" # red
base09: "ff8f40" # orange
base0A: "ffb454" # yellow
base0B: "b8cc52" # green
base0C: "95e6cb" # cyan
base0D: "59c2ff" # blue
base0E: "d2a6ff" # purple
base0F: "e6b673" # brown
```


### ayu-dark.yaml

See https://github.com/tinted-theming/home/blob/main/builder.md#schemes for detailed schema information.

```yaml
system: "base16"
name: "Ayu Dark"
author: "Khue Nguyen <Z5483Y@gmail.com>"
variant: "dark"
# optional, adjustment to produce bright## colors
lightness: 0.15
saturation: 0.0
#
palette:
  base00: "#0f1419" # ---- dark
  base01: "#131721" # ---
  base02: "#272d38" # --
  base03: "#3e4b59" # -
  base04: "#bfbdb6" # +
  base05: "#e6e1cf" # ++
  base06: "#e6e1cf" # +++
  base07: "#f3f4f5" # ++++ light
  base08: "#f07178" # red
  base09: "#ff8f40" # orange
  base0A: "#ffb454" # yellow
  base0B: "#b8cc52" # green
  base0C: "#95e6cb" # cyan
  base0D: "#59c2ff" # blue
  base0E: "#d2a6ff" # purple
  base0F: "#e6b673" # brown
```

_SPEC END_

---
